https://www.vingtsunsito.com/

897 Folsom Street, 2nd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94107 | 415-543-7486 (SITO)

"Others walk the bow,  Sito walks the string."

Welcome to 詠 VING 春 TSUN 師 SI 徒 TO, a close-knit community where we teach the powerful martial art system of Ving Tsun.

Our esteemed Sifu, Victor Chung (Moy Yuk), a fourth-generation master trained directly by Ving Tsun Grandmasters Moy Bah Hugh and the late Moy Yat, heads our school. He brings with him an experience of over two decades, originating from Philadelphia and expanding to our vibrant community in San Francisco's Yerba Buena area since 2000.

Incorporating the Chinese proverb, "Others walk the bow, Sito walks the string," we encourage our students to harness their inner strength, maintaining balance amidst life's turbulence. We're more than just a martial arts school. Our teachings inspire a lifestyle that nourishes the mind, body, and heart, fostering vibrant communities while building resilient individuals and families.

Ving Tsun, as taught by Chung, is a master-disciple relationship known throughout martial arts as "師 Si 徒 To". It is an efficiently practical martial art system that combines tradition with modern practices, developing essential character attributes for positive community impact. Beyond martial arts, we also preserve ancient Chinese traditions such as calligraphy, creating a seamless blend of old and new.

As part of our commitment to nurturing our martial art and school, we seek dedicated practitioners. So we invite you to join our flourishing Ving Tsun family and experience this transformative discipline. Contact us for an interview about joining our Martial Arts Club. Welcome to the Ving Tsun journey.


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/our-founder

Sifu Victor Chung

Our Sifu, Victor Chung, studied directly with Ving Tsun Grandmasters Moy Bah Hugh (also Pete Pajil) and the late Grandmaster Moy Yat (from 1987-2001).  

Victor Chung (or Moy Yuk) has been a direct “bai-si” or indoor disciple of Grandmaster Moy Yat and Moy Bah Hugh since 1987 and has taught hundreds of students in Philadelphia before moving to San Francisco in 2000.  

We are fortunate that he has continued to teach and share his ving tsun knowledge through the “master-disciple” relationship known throughout martial arts as “師 Si 徒 To”. Every organization is only as strong as the students it creates. We seek to build dedicated practitioners to grow and breathe continued life into ancient art. 


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/genealogy

GENEALOGY OF VING TSUN SITO

(From “Genealogy of Ving Tsun Kung Fu” from the Ving Tsun Athletic Association)

The text in Chinese was a rough draft written by the late Grandmaster Yip Man and was supposed to be the preface for the purpose of organizing the “Ving Tsun Fellowship.” The Ving Tsun Fellowship never came into existence as Grandmaster Yip Man first envisioned it. Instead, we now have the “Hong Kong Ving Tsun Athletic Association” which was established on August 24, 1967. This is the history as it was passed down by Yip Man.

The founder of the Ving Tsun Kung Fu System, Miss Yim Ving Tsun, was a native of Canton, China and lived during the reign of Emperor K’anghsi (1622-1722). As a young girl, she was intelligent and athletic, upstanding and manly. She was betrothed to Leung Bok Chau, a salt merchant of Fukien. Soon after that, her mother died. Her father, Yim Yee, was wrongfully accused of a crime and nearly went to jail. So the family moved far away and finally settled down at the foot of Tai Leung Mountain at the Yunnan—Szechuan border.

At the time, Kung Fu was becoming very strong in Siu Lam Monastery (Shaolin Monastery) of Mt. Sung, Honan. This aroused the fear of the Manchu government, which sent troops to attack the monastery. They were unsuccessful. A man named Chan Man Wai was the First Placed Graduate of the Civil Service Examination that year. He was seeking favor with the government, and suggested a plan. He plotted with Siu Lam monk Ma Ning Yee and others. They set fire to the Monastery while soldiers attacked it from outside. Siu Lam was burned down and the monks scattered.

Buddhist Abbess Ng Mui, Abbot Chi Shin, Abbot Pak Mei, Master Fung To Tak and Master Miu Him escaped and fled, going their separate ways. Ng Mui took refuge in White Crane Temple on Mt. Tai Leung (also known as Mt. Chai Har). There, she came to know Yim Yee and his daughter, Yim Ving Tsun. She bought bean curd at their store and they became friends.

Ving Tsun was a very young woman then and her beauty attracted the attention of a local bully. He tried to force Ving Tsun to marry him. She and her father were very worried. Ng Mui learned this and took pity on Ving Tsun. She agreed to teach Ving Tsun fighting techniques so that she could protect herself and solve the problem with the bully and marry Leung Bok Chau, her betrothed husband. So, Ving Tsun followed Ng Mui into the mountains and started to learn Kung Fu. She trained night and day, and eventually mastered the techniques.

She challenged the local bully to a fight for her freedom and was able to beat him using the system that Ng Mui had taught her. Ng Mui set off to travel around the country, but before she left, she told Ving Tsun to strictly honor the Kung Fu traditions, to develop her Kung Fu after her marriage, and to help the people working to overthrow the Manchu government and restore the Ming Dynasty. This is how Abbess Ng Mui first handed down Ving Tsun Kung Fu.

After her marriage, Ving Tsun taught her Kung Fu to her husband Leung Bok Chau. He passed his Kung Fu techniques on to Leung Lan Kwai. Leung Lan Kwai passed it on to Wong Wah Bo. Wong Wah Bo was a member of an opera troupe on board a small boat called a junk. The boat and the troupe were known to the Chinese as the “Red Junk.” Wong worked on the Red Junk with Leung Yee Tei. It so happened that Abbot Chi Shin, who fled from Siu Lam, had disguised himself as a cook and was now working on the Red Junk. Chi Shin taught the six and a half point Long pole techniques to Leung Yee Tei. Wong Wah Bo was close to Leung Yee Tei and they shared what they knew about Kung Fu. Together they collaborated and improved their techniques, and thus the Six and a half point Long pole techniques were incorporated into Ving Tsun Kung Fu.

Leung Yee Tei passed the Kung Fu on to Leung Jan, a well-known herbal doctor in Fat Shan. Leung Jan grasped the innermost secrets of Ving Tsun and attained the highest level of proficiency. Many Kung Fu Masters came to challenge him, but all were defeated. Leung Jan became very famous and later he passed his Kung Fu on to Chan Wah Shan, who took me as his student many decades ago. I studied Kung Fu alongside my brothers such as Ng Siu Lo, Ng Chung So, Chan Yu Min and Lui Yu Jai. Ving Tsun was thus passed down to us and we are eternally grateful to our Kung Fu ancestors and teachers.

We will always remember and appreciate our roots and this shared feeling will always keep our Kung Fu brothers close together. This is why I am organizing the Ving Tsun Fellowship, and I hope my Kung Fu brothers will support me in this. This will be very important in the promotion of Kung Fu.


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/mission

Our Mission

Ving Tsun Vito’s vision is to continue growing Ving Tsun's true nature regardless of economic hardship. 

This is about training and developing a culture of practitioners seeking to preserve Ving Tsun as is. 

Ving Tsun Vito offers year-round programs for children, adults, and seniors, promoting cultural awareness, character building, life skills, mentorship, and healthy living initiatives. 

VTS' vision is to continue growing Ving Tsun's true nature regardless of economic hardship. 

Our system's nature is about being simple and direct. Never adding or complicating. It is straightforward and honest. 

We will not deviate in our pursuit of kung fu (which is simply another term for excellence) by using less to accomplish more. Our core beliefs in the practice of VT is to find the path and process to the least amount of resistance and effort required to get the job done!


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/programs

Our Programs

Ving Tsun Sito is a community-based nonprofit that offers healthy living programs centered on  mentorship, life skills development, mind mastery and exercise grounded in the practice of Ving Tsun Kung Fu martial arts. All programs incorporate the fundamentals of forms, stances, hands and feet and Sum Faat, which aligns martial arts stances with 22 Chinese idioms reflective of ethics and real-life application. Programs are fee for service with income-based scholarships available to those who qualify. 


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/schedule

General School Hours

Monday, Wednesday
6:00pm - 6:30pm - RKC Kettlebell training (all students | optional)

Friday
6:30pm - 8pm - Kung Fu training (all students)

Tuesday & Thursday
Per request

Saturday
Private training (by appointment)


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/school-policy


Official School Policy

The VING TSUN SITO KUNG FU SCHOOL does not allow visitors-in during training hours. Out of respect to the study of VING TSUN (and our members), we do not allow people to come in to observe practice sessions. As a kung fu school and a non-profit organization, we prefer to keep practice hours for practice-only. Folks interested in learning about VING TSUN KUNG FU should fill out our Student-Member Enrollment Card, or go online at your convenience to www.vingtsunsito.com/enrollment.

Thank you for your interest in VING TSUN (also WING CHUN) and our school.
-SITO

Rules & Regulations

Before practicing

    Sign-in and make sure your dues are current

    Turn-off mobile phones & mobile devices – “Vibrate” mode is still ON

    Remove all jewelry and hats (caps, etc.)

    Change into uniform (i.e. plain white shirt & black sweat/wind breaker pants)

    Secure belongings in your available box

    Wash hands and arms thoroughly between your elbow and fingertips

While practicing

    No unsupervised sparring of any kind

    Stretch out your body prior to doing any physical training

    Wipe down sweat before and after using exercise equipment

    Be mindful of others while practicing

    Communicate clearly what you are working on in practice

    Practice what you know and don’t attempt anything you don’t know

    Seek proper instructions from Sifu or any Sihing

    Know your position within SITO

After practice

    Clean up your mess (cups, bottles, and paper towels)

    Wash hands and arms again

    Change clothes if you need to before going home

    Make sure the shower and bathroom are clean before and after using it

    No Loitering or hanging out at the school EVER


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/payment

Payments for tuition, special events, can be made here.

Please be sure to detail online payments so we can easily identify what they’re for!
Please use this button to pay tuition or pay via check/cash to the deposit box at the school.
https://withfriends.co/vingtsunsito/join?utm_campaign=wf-websitelink

Please use this PayPal button to donate to our non-profit.
https://www.paypal.com/donate?token=L_fpBogr6Fr-sbk8N8Tn8g8pgrDvfP5i738ozVBXqRN2BufGrmDz_7WX_PX7IIPVpfyLP53fbYtg5Qws


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/enrollment

Orientation Enrollment Form

For more information or to become an exclusive and direct member of the VING TSUN SITO (“see-toe”) KUNG FU SCHOOL, please fill out our enrollment questionnaire below.  

We will send you a link where you can schedule your Ving Tsun orientation.  
Name(required)
First Name
Last Name
Email(required)
Have you studied martial arts before?
If yes, which disciplines(s)?
How did you hear about our school?
Phone
Notes and/or questions


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/media

Media

Asians Are Strong Rally

Members of the Ving Tsun Sito school proudly stood together in solidarity at the 'Asians Are Strong' rally in 2021. 'Asians Are Strong' is a movement and nonprofit organization that was born out of a surge of anti-Asian hate crimes in 2021, including the Atlanta Spa Shootings. The mission of 'Asians Are Strong' is to empower the Asian community to stand up against violence and hate, rebuild confidence within the community, and challenge the model minority myth. Our students joined this cause, demonstrating their commitment to community safety and strength. Together, we are strong, and we stand against hate.

SOMA Sunday Street Fair

Check out our video from the vibrant SOMA Sunday Street Fair! Members of Ving Tsun Sito took to the streets, showcasing our skills, discipline, and the spirit of Ving Tsun. This unique event was a wonderful opportunity to connect with our local community, share the art of Ving Tsun, and demonstrate the principles of Sum Faat.

Kung Fu Caleb is a cartoon series about how a young boy applies wisdom to handle life's challenges as he grows up. This show is simply about acquiring new methods from the heart and putting it to practice everyday. Kung Fu Caleb's sole purpose it to entertain and educate children through the examples shared between a young boy and his teacher.   Sifi Victor Chung is delighted to be a part of this ongoing venture as Content Consultant to entertain and educate our youth with martial arts wisdom and experience that we call "kung fu" using creative writing and animation.


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/donate

Donate

Ving Tsun Sito is able to offer these high-quality programs to the community with the support and commitment of donors like you. Every donation empowers, educates, inspires and creates opportunities for a better future. Every gift, small or large, makes a difference causing a ripple effect to shift an entire generation.

Won’t you join us in our mission and vision?

Use the Paypal buttons below to make a tax-deductible donation today.

Sponsor a VTS student:
https://www.paypal.com/webapps/hermes?token=4HT38838396490715&useraction=commit&wpsFlowRedirectToXorouterSkipHermesStartTime=1718384095089&flowType=WPS&mfid=1718384094792_f1073312f6ea8

Donate any amount:
https://www.paypal.com/donate?token=pdJfkP4NxvcRwMkv5lRpMpCkM10p-J-UMQMOzFO_83fAVdLNUV2iAx7VGVMGc3r1T7Nvimh4Q4_5X9Fi

Ving Tsun Sito is a recognized under the IRS 501(c)3 charitable designation EIN 27-3946261

All donations are tax-deductible as allowed by applicable law


https://www.vingtsunsito.com/contact

Location

897 Folsom Street, 2nd Floor
San Francisco, CA 94107
United States

T: +1 415-543-7486 (SITO)
E: info@vingtsunsito.com
Information

Members: Please ring the door bell and somebody will gladly open the door for you.

Non-Members: Please fill out our enrollment questionnaire and we will get back to you for an orientation with an appointment date.
Orientation Enrollment
https://www.vingtsunsito.com/enrollment
